doc: add migration guide from NCS 1.x.x (#7577)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/migration/migration_guide_1.x_to_2.x.rst

.. _ncs_2.0.0_migration:

Migration notes for |NCS| v2.0.0
################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

In version 2.0.0, the |NCS| introduced a number of breaking changes into its codebase.
If your application was built using |NCS| v1.x.x, make sure to complete the actions listed in the following sections to migrate your application to |NCS| v2.x.x.

Toolchain change
****************

> |NCS| no longer uses the GNU Arm Embedded Toolchain.
> The current default toolchain is the Zephyr toolchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|NCS| no longer uses the GNU Arm Embedded Toolchain by default.
The current default toolchain is the [Zephyr SDK](https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/sdk-ng/releases) instead, which now supports all 3 main operating systems (Microsoft Windows, macOS and GNU/Linux).
```

> *Required action*: Install the new toolchain by following the steps in "Install a Toolchain" in Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:getting_started`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Required action*: If you don't use the Toolchain Manager, install the Zephyr SDK by following the steps in "Install a Toolchain" in Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:getting_started`. The updated Toolchain Manager already contains it.
```

Reviewer: @martingalvan-nordic please double-check this^^

Reviewer 2: It looks fine, though the Zephyr Getting Started guide involves running the SDK's setup.sh script. I'm not sure if that's correct in our case, since it ends up registering the SDK's toolchain within the CMake machinery and installs a set of "hosttools" which we don't use (e.g. Qemu, OpenOCD. etc).

For example, in the toolchain-manager we don't run that script; instead we simply set the `ZEPHYR_SDK_INSTALL_DIR` environment variable (as documented at https://docs.zephyrproject.org/2.7.0/getting_started/installation_linux.html#install-the-zephyr-software-development-kit-sdk).

Author: If this is the case, then we need to change our 'Install a toolchain' section in the manual installation instructions, because right now we are basically copying what is in Zephyr, after switching to Zephyr SDK.

Reviewer: Both running the `setup.sh` or setting `ZEPHYR_SDK_INSTALL_DIR` have the same effect of the toolchain being found by the zephyr build system. Since this section is only relevant for those **not** using the Toolchain Manager then this is fine as it is.

.. _ncs_2.0.0_migration:

Migration notes for |NCS| v2.0.0
################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> In version 2.0.0, the |NCS| introduced a number of breaking changes into its codebase.

Author: changing to major

The updated Toolchain Manager already contains it.

|VSC| extension IDE is now the default
**************************************

|VSC| extension IDE has replaced SEGGER Embedded Studio as the default supported IDE for working with the |NCS|.

*Required action*: If you are building the application or sample using SEGGER Embedded Studio or on the command line and want to migrate to |VSC| extension IDE, follow the instructions in the `migrating from other IDEs to VS Code <Migrating IDE_>`_ documentation.

Pin control transition
**********************

Zephyr v3.x.x introduces new state-based pin control API (`pinctrl`).
For more details, see :ref:`zephyr:pinctrl-guide` in Zephyr documentation.

*Required action*: The :ref:`ug_pinctrl` user guide provides information on how to migrate your application to use the new pin control mechanism.

TF-M replaces SPM as the default secure firmware solution
*********************************************************

Trusted Firmware M (TF-M) replaces the Secure Partition Manager (SPM) for secure image firmware.
TF-M is now enabled by default for most nRF9160 and nRF5340 applications and samples.

> *Required action*: To start using TF-M instead of SPM in your application, see the information in :ref:`ug_tfm_migrate`.

Reviewer 3: :ref:`ug_tfm_migrate` not linking presently.

Author: I will rebase

Reviewer 3: If we are planning to link to https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/ug_tfm.html?highlight=migrating#migrating-from-secure-partition-manager-to-trusted-firmware-m, its missing a label there..

Author: added, for some reason I thought it exists on main (probably planned to add it myself)

Encoding state initialization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Encoding with TinyCBOR is similar to decoding and requires two API calls, one to setup a buffer writer, ``cbor_buf_writer_init``, and one to attach the writer to an encoding state with ``cbor_encoder_init``.
zcbor encoding is initialized with a single call to ``zcbor_new_encode_state`` that directly ties the provided buffer to an encoding state.
Below is an example of simple zcbor state initialization for encoding:

.. code-block:: c

   zcbor_state_t zs[2];
   uint8_t buffer[SOME_SIZE];
   zcbor_new_encode_state(zs, ARRAY_SIZE(zs), buffer, ARRAY_SIZE(buffer), 0);
   /* Encode data to the buffer with zs state */
   ...

In the above example, the zcbor state ``zs`` consists of two states, which is enough when zcbor is in non-canonical configuration (see :kconfig:option:ZCBOR_CANONICAL).
In non-canonical configuration, the number of states would need to be increased by a maximum level of expected lists and/or arrays enveloping each other.

> The other parameters provided are: the ``buffer`` where encoded data will be placed, with size that limits it, and ``0`` as the final parameter that represents the number of items encoded into the buffer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The other parameters provided are the ``buffer`` where encoded data will be placed, with size that limits it, and ``0``, the final parameter that represents the number of items encoded into the buffer.
```

At this point, the zcbor state is initialized and zcbor decoding API calls that follow it must be given a pointer to the first zcbor state - ``zs``, or ``&zs[0]``, as in the example.

.. note::

>     Currently, there is no API provided for zcbor to get information on how much of an output buffer has been used by encoded data.
> 	The only way to find this out is to substitute the buffer pointer, given at a zcbor state initialization, from the state object element ``payload_mut``, for example ``zs->payload_mut - buffer``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Currently, there is no API provided for zcbor to get information on how much of an output buffer has been used by encoded data.
    The only way to find this out is to substitute the buffer pointer, given at a zcbor state initialization, from the state object element ``payload_mut``, for example ``zs->payload_mut - buffer``.
```

.. _migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_general_api:

TinyCBOR to zcbor decoding/encoding API replacement
---------------------------------------------------

There are three major differences between TinyCBOR and zcbor APIs:

>  1. TinyCBOR calls return error codes while zcbor returns a `bool` value (`true` is success).
>  #. zcbor does not provide type/value peek functions.
>  #. All of zcbor functions advance buffer on success.

Reviewer 3: Adding a suggestion on top of Greg's suggestion:
```suggestion
There are three major differences between TinyCBOR and zcbor APIs:

* TinyCBOR calls return error codes while zcbor returns a boolean value (``true`` is success).
* zcbor does not provide type or value peek functions.
* All of zcbor functions advance buffer on success.
```

> zbcor stores error codes with `zs` and, when configured, can automatically fail consecutive calls when decoding or encoding fails.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
zbcor stores error codes with ``zs`` and, when configured, can automatically fail consecutive calls when decoding or encoding fails.
```

> Otherwise, the calls are quite similar: functions from both APIs take context/state as one parameter and value or pointer for value and optional buffer size, when required, as the following parameters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Otherwise, the calls are quite similar: functions from both APIs take context or state as one parameter and value or pointer for value and optional buffer size, when required, as the other parameters.
```

The following list maps TinyCBOR functions to their zcbor equivalents:

.. table::

>    :align: center

Reviewer 3: This is not needed. Also, the table could be aligned to the left.

    | `cbor_value_get_int`              | `zcbor_int32_decode`              |
    +-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
    | `cbor_value_get_int64`            | `zcbor_int64_decode`              |
    +-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
    | `cbor_value_get_uint64`           | `zcbor_uint6_decode`              |
    +-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
    | `cbor_value_get_boolean`          | `zcbor_bool_decode`               |
    +-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
    | `cbor_value_get_float`            | `zcbor_float32_decode`            |
    +-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
    | `cbor_value_get_double`           | `zcbor_float64_decode`            |
    |                                   | `zcbor_double_decode`             |
    +-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
    | `cbor_value_get_string_length`    | No direct replacement, the        |
    |                                   | `zcbor_bstr_decode` or            |

>     |                                   | `zcbor_tstr_decode` will retrieve |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    |                                   | ``zcbor_tstr_decode()`` functions will retrieve |
```

    |                                   | both the value pointer and length |
    |                                   | in a single call.                 |
    +-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
    | `cbor_value_copy_text_string`     | No direct replacement, the        |

>     |                                   | `zcbor_tstr_decode` will retrieve |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    |                                   | ``zcbor_tstr_decode()`` function will retrieve |
```

    |                                   | both the value pointer and length |
    |                                   | in a single call.                 |
    +-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
    | `zcbor_value_copy_byte_string`    | No direct replacement, the        |

>     |                                   | `zcbor_bstr_decode` will retrieve |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    |                                   | ``zcbor_bstr_decode()`` function will retrieve |
```

    | `cbor_encode_double`              | `zcbor_float64_put`               |
    |                                   | `zcbor_double_put`                |
    +-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
    | `cbor_encode_text_string`         | `zcbor_tstr_encode`               |
    |                                   | `zcbor_tstr_encode_ptr`           |
    |                                   | `zcbor_tstr_put_lit`              |
    +-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
    | `cbor_encode_text_stringz`        | `zcbor_tstr_put_term`             |
    +-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
    | `cbor_encode_byte_string`         | `zcbor_bstr_encode`               |
    |                                   | `zcbor_bstr_encode_ptr`           |
    +-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
    | `cbor_encode_null`                | `zcbor_nil_put`                   |
    +-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
    | `cbor_encode_undefined`           | `zcbor_undefined_put`             |

>     +-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

Reviewer 3: Since they are function calls, ``function_name()`` could be used throughout the table.

Author: done

> There is no direct replacement for the `cbor_value_is_null` and `cbor_value_is_undefined` functions in zcbor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There is no direct replacement for the ``cbor_value_is_null()`` and ``cbor_value_is_undefined()`` functions in zcbor.
```

> To check whether such value is where expected, you can utilize the following code:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To check whether such value is expected and where, use the following code:
```

.. code-block:: c

   bool ok;
   ...
   /* Make sure that not in error state first */
   if (zs->constant_state->error != 0) {
       /* Already in error */
       ...
   }
   ok = zcbor_nil_decode(zs, NULL);
   if (!ok && zs->constant_state->error == ZCBOR_ERR_WRONG_TYPE) {
       /* Process non-NULL element */
       zcbor_pop_error(zs);
       ...
   } else if (!ok) {
       /* Other error */
       ...
   }
   /* Successfully decoded NULL element in CBOR stream */
   ...

.. _migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_mcumgr:

MCUmgr commands and groups migration
====================================

> In contrast to :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_general`, except for tuning some Kconfig configuration constants, there is no need for zcbor setup as the MCUmgr library takes care of the task for you.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In contrast to :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_general`, except for tuning some Kconfig configuration constants, zcbor setup is not needed as the MCUmgr library takes care of the task.
```

> Most of the task which consists of function replacement is actually covered by the :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_general`, with exception to usage of ``cborattr`` which is covered by section :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_mcumgr_cborattr`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Most of the task that consists of function replacement is actually covered by the :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_general`, with exception to usage of ``cborattr``, which is covered in :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_mcumgr_cborattr`.
```

> The other important issue is decoding/encoding context access, which is described in :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_mcumgr_ctxt`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The other important issue is decoding or encoding context access, which is described in :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_mcumgr_ctxt`.
```

.. note::

   The encoding context provided by the command processing handler function as a parameter has the top level map already created.
   The map will be closed on a successful return from the handler, so handlers need not create the top level map or close it.

>    The decoding context, in contrary to the encoding, is set before the top map and handlers are responsible for opening of the top-level map as a part of command decoding/processing code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   The decoding context, in contrary to the encoding, is set before the top map and handlers are responsible for opening of the top-level map as a part of command decoding or processing code.
```

.. _migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_mcumgr_ctxt:

Decoding and encoding context
-----------------------------

> Command processing functions, whenever TinyCBOR or zcbor is used, will be given a pointer to an object of type ``struct mgmt_ctxt``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Whenever TinyCBOR or zcbor is used, command processing functions are given a pointer to an object of type ``struct mgmt_ctxt``.
```

TinyCBOR uses the ``encoder`` element of this object for encoding functions and ``it``, a TinyCBOR ``CborValue`` type iterator, for decoding functions.

zcbor uses ``zcbor_state_t`` type objects for decoding and encoding states and these state objects have replaced the TinyCBOR ``it`` iterator and ``encoder``, respectively, within ``struct mgmt_ctxt`` indirectly, as they are embedded within the ``struct cbor_nb_reader`` type object for decoding context, and in the ``struct cbor_nb_writer`` type object for encoding context.

The ``struct cbor_nb_reader`` and ``struct cbor_nb_writer`` objects tie ``zcbor_state_t`` with ``net_buf`` type buffers that hold data for decoding or will hold encoded data.

The replacement of decoder and encoder objects, as accessed through ``struct mgmt_ctxt``, is shown by the following table:

.. table::

>     :align: center

Reviewer 3: This can be removed and the table can be aligned to the left.

>     +===================+===================+
>     | TinyCBOR          | zcbor             |
>     +-------------------+-------------------+
>     | ``encoder``       | ``cnbe.ts``       |
>     |                   | ``cnbe->ts``      |
>     +-------------------+-------------------+
>     | ``it``            | ``cnde.ts``       |
>     |                   | ``cnde->ts``      |
>     +---------------------------------------+

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+-------------------+-------------------+
| TinyCBOR          | zcbor             |
+===================+===================+
| ``encoder``       | ``cnbe.ts``       |
|                   +-------------------+
|                   | ``cnbe->ts``      |
+-------------------+-------------------+
| ``it``            | ``cnde.ts``       |
|                   +-------------------+
|                   | ``cnde->ts``      |
+-------------------+-------------------+
```

.. _migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_mcumgr_cborattr:

Replacing `cbor_read_object` with `zcbor_map_decode_bulk`
---------------------------------------------------------

.. note::

>    In scenarios where decoding of keys is not required or it is required for only a single key, the procedure described in this section can be greatly simplified as a single key can be obtained by using ``zcbor_tst_decode`` looped until the key is found.

Reviewer 3: Is ``zcbor_tst_decode`` a function? In that case ``zcbor_tst_decode()``

``cborattr`` was a private MCUMgr utility that was used within the command processing code to process CBOR list contents in bulk and is now replaced with ``zcbor_bulk``.

> These utility APIs are represented by a single function: ``cbor_read_object`` in case of TinyCBOR, and ``zcbor_map_decode_bulk`` in case of zcbor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These utility APIs are represented by a single function, ``cbor_read_object()`` in case of TinyCBOR, and ``zcbor_map_decode_bulk()`` in case of zcbor.
```

> The advantage of ``zcbor_map_decode_bulk`` over ``cbor_read_object`` is the simplification of structures that define the mapping of decoding functions to keys in a CBOR map.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The advantage of ``zcbor_map_decode_bulk()`` over ``cbor_read_object()`` is the simplification of structures that define the mapping of decoding functions to keys in a CBOR map.
```

> The following example demonstrates the transition from ``cbor_read_object`` to ``zcbor_map_decode_bulk``:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates the transition from ``cbor_read_object()`` to ``zcbor_map_decode_bulk()``:
```

.. code-block:: c

   int image;
   uint8_t img_data[SOME_DATA_LEN];
   size_t data_len;
   const struct cbor_attr_t off_attr[] = {
       [0] = {
           .attribute = "image",
           .type = CborAttrUnsignedIntegerType,
           .addr.uinteger = &req.image,
           .nodefault = true
       },
       [1] = {
           .attribute = "data",
           .type = CborAttrByteStringType,
           .addr.bytestring.data = img_data,
           .addr.bytestring.len = &data_len,
           .len = sizeof(img_data)
       },
       ...
   }
   rc = cbor_read_object(&ctxt->it, off_attr);
   ...

> The ``off_attr`` provides specification of data encoded in CBOR format that is decoded by the call to ``cbor_read_object``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The ``off_attr`` provides specification of data encoded in CBOR format that is decoded by the call to ``cbor_read_object()``.
```

The specification is a list of structures that specify an expected list key (``.attribute`` element), a type of key (``.type``), a pointer to the buffer for it
(usually subelement of the ``.addr`` element), and a few other attributes.

> The ``cbor_read_object`` takes the specification and, using the TinyCBOR decoding context, attempts to get all the described fields into the specified designated variables.
> After a successful call to ``cbor_read_object``, the variables are set and ready for further processing, and the buffer is shifted beyond the list.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The ``cbor_read_object()`` function takes the specification and, using the TinyCBOR decoding context, attempts to get all the described fields into the specified designated variables.
After a successful call to ``cbor_read_object()``, the variables are set and ready for further processing, and the buffer is shifted beyond the list.
```

This also includes copying binary and string buffers to the specified locations.

> The context, accessed by ``ctxt->it`` in the above example, is provided by the MCUmgr library, so it is already initialized and has the buffer attached.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The context, accessed by ``ctxt->it`` in the previous example, is provided by the MCUmgr library, so it is already initialized and has the buffer attached.
```

> The zcbor conversion of the above code looks like this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Following is the zcbor conversion of the previous example code:
```

.. code-block:: c

   int image;
   struct zcbor_string zst;
   struct zcbor_map_decode_key_val image_upload_decode[] = {
           ZCBOR_MAP_DECODE_KEY_VAL(image, zcbor_int32_decode, &image),
           ZCBOR_MAP_DECODE_KEY_VAL(data, zcbor_bstr_decode, &zst),
   };
   ok = zcbor_map_decode_bulk(zsd, image_upload_decode,
                              ARRAY_SIZE(image_upload_decode), &decoded) == 0;
   ...

> The list specification is significantly simplified as it consists of array of ``ZCBOR_MAP_DECODE_KEY_VAL`` defined mappings, each given: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The list specification is significantly simplified as it consists of an array of ``ZCBOR_MAP_DECODE_KEY_VAL`` defined mappings, each of which is provided with the following parameters: 
```

>  * Name of a key (without quotation marks).
>  * zcbor decoding function directly from API (or user-provided type equivalent).
>  * Pointer to a variable where the extracted value will be stored.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Name of a key (without quotation marks).
* zcbor decoding function directly from API (or user-provided type equivalent).
* Pointer to a variable where the extracted value will be stored.
```

The difference here is that the decoding of binary and string data does not involve copying of the data to a specified buffer.
Instead, as described in :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_general`, the decoding function is paired with a ``struct zcbor_string`` type variable where decoding will store position and length of the data, within the provided CBOR buffer.
It is then up to the user to copy the values to a specified location.
This mechanism improves the RAM and CPU usage because the need for an intermediate buffer is often reduced.

> To process a CBOR buffer and decode it according to the defined mapping, ``zcbor_map_decode_bulk`` takes the following parameters:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To process a CBOR buffer and decode it according to the defined mapping, ``zcbor_map_decode_bulk()`` takes the following parameters:
```

>  * The zcbor decoding context, ``zsd`` in the above example.
>  * The mapping specification and size of the mapping.
>  * A pointer to a variable for number of successfully decoded map elements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The zcbor decoding context, ``zsd`` in the above example.
* The mapping specification and size of the mapping.
* A pointer to a variable for number of successfully decoded map elements.
```

.. note::

>    Currently, there is no method provided to find out what fields did not get found in string.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Currently, there is no method provided to determine the fields that are not found in the string.
```

   It is up to the user to verify whether keys that are optional have appeared in the decoded string.

>    This can be done, for example, by checking if a destination variable value has changed from initial.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   This can be done, for example, by checking if a destination variable value has changed from initial value.
```

New Zephyr logging service - logging v2
***************************************

> Zephyr v3.x.x comes with a new logging service (logging v2) that replaces and extends the older one.

Reviewer 4: It is more that Zephyr v3.x.x is using new logging (logging v2) by default. Legacy version is still supported but it is deprecated and will be removed after Zephyr v3.1.0. It can be enabled by setting `CONFIG_LOG1=y`.

For details about the Zephyr logging service, see :ref:`zephyr:logging_api`.
Version 2 supports the same set of features with a number of extensions, however, the logging backend API is different.
All backends in the tree support version 2 API but if you are using an out-of-tree backend, it must be adapted to use the new logging system.

> *Required action*: Logging v1 uses the following three functions that need to be replaced:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*Required action*: Logging v1 uses the following three functions that must be replaced:
```

.. code-block::

   /* DEPRECATED! Functions used for logging v1. */
   void (*put)(const struct log_backend *const backend,
            struct log_msg *msg);
   void (*put_sync_string)(const struct log_backend *const backend,
            struct log_msg_ids src_level, uint32_t timestamp,
            const char *fmt, va_list ap);
   void (*put_sync_hexdump)(const struct log_backend *const backend,
            struct log_msg_ids src_level, uint32_t timestamp,
            const char *metadata, const uint8_t *data, uint32_t len);

> Replace these functions with the following one function used by logging v2:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Replace these functions with the following function used by logging v2:
```

.. code-block::

   /* Logging v2 function. */
   void (*process)(const struct log_backend *const backend,
           union log_msg2_generic *msg);

Zephyr v3.x.x namespace change
******************************

> All Zephyr public headers have been moved to :file:`include/zephyr`, meaning they need to be prefixed with ``<zephyr/...>`` when included.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All Zephyr public headers have been moved to :file:`include/zephyr`, meaning they must be prefixed with ``<zephyr/...>`` when included.
```

> Because this change can potentially break many applications or libraries, ``CONFIG_LEGACY_INCLUDE_PATH`` is provided to allow using the old include path.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Because this change can potentially break many applications or libraries, :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LEGACY_INCLUDE_PATH` is provided to allow using the old include path.
```

.. _ncs_2.0.0_migration:

Migration notes for |NCS| v2.0.0
################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

In version 2.0.0, the |NCS| introduced a number of breaking changes into its codebase.
If your application was built using |NCS| v1.x.x, make sure to complete the actions listed in the following sections to migrate your application to |NCS| v2.x.x.

Toolchain change
****************

|NCS| no longer uses the GNU Arm Embedded Toolchain by default.
The current default toolchain is the `Zephyr SDK`_ instead, which now supports all three main operating systems (Microsoft Windows, macOS, and GNU/Linux).

> *Required action*: If you do not use the Toolchain Manager, install the Zephyr SDK by following the steps in "Install a Toolchain" in Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:getting_started`.

Author: I just redirected the link to our 'Install a Toolchain' section in our Installing Manually, as we are basically copying from Zephyr now.

TF-M replaces SPM as the default secure firmware solution
*********************************************************

Trusted Firmware M (TF-M) replaces the Secure Partition Manager (SPM) for secure image firmware.
TF-M is now enabled by default for most nRF9160 and nRF5340 applications and samples.

*Required action*: To start using TF-M instead of SPM in your application, see the information in :ref:`ug_tfm_migrate`.

Switch from TinyCBOR to zcbor
*****************************

With Zephyr v3.x.x, TinyCBOR becomes deprecated and replaced by zcbor.
If you are using TinyCBOR to encode data into CBOR format in your application, follow this guide to migrate your code.

.. note::
   If you have extended MCUmgr with additional custom commands, then your code will not compile anymore as the commands will receive pointers to variables that no longer exist or that have changed their types during TinyCBOR to zcbor transition.

.. _migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_general:

General migration
=================

The TinyCBOR to zcbor migration consists of two tasks:

 1. :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_general_init`
 #. :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_general_api`

> The first task involves TinyCBOR decoding and encoding replacement, while the second task is function-to-function conversion, with a few exceptions in how parameters are passed and what return values are returned from API calls.

Reviewer 5: ```
The first task involves TinyCBOR decoding and encoding replacement
```
It is not abut "decoding/encoding" but context initialization. The "decoding/encoding" is second task (the function-to-function conversion)

.. _migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_general_init:

zcbor state initialization
--------------------------

You must first initialize the decoding and encoding state of zcbor.

Decoding state initialization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Decoding with TinyCBOR requires setting up a reader with a buffer by calling `cbor_buf_reader_init`, and attaching it to a parser state with `cbor_parser_init`.

Author: changing to double backticks, I don't think we can use references as this is in a different repo

zcbor decoding is initialized with a call to `zcbor_new_decode_state` that directly ties the provided buffer to decoding state.
For better understanding of how zcbor states work, refer to `zcbor documentation`_.
The following is an example of simple zcbor state initialization for decoding:

.. code-block:: c

   #define N   20              /* Max expected encoded elements */
   zcbor_state_t zs[2];
   uint8_t buffer[SOME_SIZE];
   /* Read some data to the buffer */
   ...
   zcbor_new_decode_state(zs, ARRAY_SIZE(zs), buffer, ARRAY_SIZE(buffer), N);
   /* Decode data from the buffer with zs state */
   ...

In the above example, the zcbor state `zs` consists of two states, which is a minimal practical state count.

> These states will allow to work on flat CBOR encoding where no variables are embedded within lists or maps.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
These states will allow to work on flat CBOR encoding where no list or a map is used to envelope variables at the top level of CBOR stream encoding.
```

> Two states are used because one will be current state and the other can be used as a constant state where an encoding error is stored.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Two states are used because one will be the current state and the other can be used as a constant state, where an encoding error is stored with some other internal variables.
```

> In case you plan to have embedded lists or maps, the number of states for decoding must be increased by adding a number of levels of 2.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In case you plan to have an embedded lists or maps, the number of states for decoding must be increased by adding a number of levels to the base 2; for example in case of three levels of map/list encoding the number of states should be set to 2 + 3.
```

> The `buffer` can be any plain buffer and decoding requires the buffer size to know where encoded data ends.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The `buffer` can be any plain buffer and decoding requires the buffer size, to know where encoded data ends.
```

The `N` represents a possible number of encoded fields.

> It does not have to be accurate but it needs to be at least the number of expected fields.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
It does not have to be accurate, but it needs to be at least the number of expected fields.
```

> In case the top element is a list or a map, then this can be `1`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In case when the top element is a list or a map, this will be `1`.
```

> MCUmgr is an example of such a case where there is always a top level map required.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
MCUMgr is an example of such a case as there is always a top level, single, map required.
```

> MCUmgr is an example of such a case where there is always a top level map required.

Author: ok

> At this point, the zcbor state is initialized.
> Following it, zcbor decoding API calls must be given a pointer to the first zcbor state - `zs` or `&zs[0]` if you prefer, as in the example.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
At this point, the zcbor state is initialized; following it zcbor decoding API calls must be given a pointer to the first zcbor state - `zs` or `&zs[0]` if you prefer, as in the example above.
```

.. note::

>    Currently, there is no API provided for zcbor to get information on how much of an input buffer has been consumed for decoding.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   Currently, there is no API provided for zcbor to get information on how much of an input buffer has been consumed by a decoding.
```

>    The only way to find this out is to substitute the buffer pointer, given at zcbor state initialization, from the state object element `payload_mut`, for example `zs->payload_mut - buffer`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   The only way to find this out is to substitute the buffer pointer, given at the zcbor state initialization, from the state object element `payload_mut`, for example `zs->payload_mut - buffer`.
```

Encoding state initialization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Encoding with TinyCBOR is similar to decoding and requires two API calls, one to setup a buffer writer, `cbor_buf_writer_init`, and one to attach the writer to encoding state `cbor_encoder_init`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Encoding with TinyCBOR is similar to decoding and requires two API calls, one to setup a buffer writer, `cbor_buf_writer_init`, and one to attach the writer to an encoding state, `cbor_encoder_init`.
```

> zcbor encoding is initialized with a single call to `zcbor_new_encode_state` that directly ties the provided buffer to encoding state.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
zcbor encoding is initialized with a single call to `zcbor_new_encode_state` that directly ties the provided buffer to an encoding state.
```

Below is an example of simple zcbor state initialization for encoding:

.. code-block:: c

   zcbor_state_t zs[2];
   uint8_t buffer[SOME_SIZE];
   zcbor_new_encode_state(zs, ARRAY_SIZE(zs), buffer, ARRAY_SIZE(buffer), 0);
   /* Encode data to the buffer with zs state */
   ...

In the above example, the zcbor state `zs` consists of two states, which is enough when zcbor is in non-canonical configuration (see :kconfig:option:ZCBOR_CANONICAL).

> Otherwise, the number of states would need to be increased by a maximum level of expected lists and arrays.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In non-canonical configuration, the number of states would need to be increased by a maximum level of expected lists and/or arrays enveloping each other.
```

> The other parameters provided are the `buffer` where data will be placed, with size that limits it, and `0` as the final parameter that represents the number of items encoded into the buffer.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The other parameters provided are: the `buffer` where encoded data will be placed, with size that limits it, and `0` as the final parameter that represents the number of items encoded into the buffer.
```

> At this point, the zcbor state is initialized and following it zcbor decoding API calls must be given a pointer to the first zcbor state - `zs`, or `&zs[0]`, as in the example.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
At this point, the zcbor state is initialized and zcbor decoding API calls, that follow it, must be given a pointer to the first zcbor state - `zs`, or `&zs[0]`, as in the example.
```

.. note::

    Currently, there is no API provided for zcbor to get information on how much of an output buffer has been used by encoded data.
	The only way to find this out is to substitute the buffer pointer, given at a zcbor state initialization, from the state object element `payload_mut`, for example `zs->payload_mut - buffer`.

.. _migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_general_api:

TinyCBOR to zcbor decoding/encoding API replacement
---------------------------------------------------

There are three major differences between TinyCBOR and zcbor APIs:

 1. TinyCBOR calls return error codes while zcbor returns a `bool` value (`true` is success).
 #. zcbor does not provide type/value peek functions.
 #. All of zcbor functions advance buffer on success.

zbcor stores error codes with `zs` and, when configured, can automatically fail consecutive calls when decoding or encoding fails.

> Otherwise, the calls are quite similar: functions from both APIs take context/state as one parameter and value or pointer for value and optional buffer size as the following parameters.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Otherwise, the calls are quite similar: functions from both APIs take context/state as one parameter and value or pointer for value and buffer size, when required, as the following parameters.
```

> The following list maps TinyCBOR functions to their zcbor equivalents:

Author: I'll stay with the current wording here, I think function mapping is the proper way to put it.

.. table::

>    :align:center

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   :align: center
```

> 	

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

```

    | `cbor_encode_text_stringz`        | `zcbor_tstr_put_term`             |
    +-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
    | `cbor_encode_byte_string`         | `zcbor_bstr_encode`               |
    |                                   | `zcbor_bstr_encode_ptr`           |
    +-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
    | `cbor_encode_null`                | `zcbor_nil_put`                   |
    +-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
    | `cbor_encode_undefined`           | `zcbor_undefined_put`             |
    +-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

There is no direct replacement for the `cbor_value_is_null` and `cbor_value_is_undefined` functions in zcbor.
To check whether such value is where expected, you can utilize the following code:

.. code-block:: c

   bool ok;
   ...
   /* Make sure that not in error state first */
   if (zs->constant_state->error != 0) {
       /* Already in error */
       ...
   }
   ok = zcbor_nil_decode(zs, NULL);
   if (!ok && zs->constant_state->error == ZCBOR_ERR_WRONG_TYPE) {

>        /* Process non NULL element */

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
       /* Process non-NULL element */
```

       zcbor_pop_error(zs);
       ...
   } else if (!ok) {
       /* Other error */
       ...
   }
   /* Successfully decoded NULL element in CBOR stream */
   ...

.. _migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_mcumgr:

MCUmgr commands and groups migration
====================================

> In contrast to :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_general`, except for tuning some Kconfig configuration constants, there is no need for zcbor setup as the MCUmgr library takes case of the task.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In contrast to the :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_general`, except for tuning some Kconfig configuration constants, there is no need for zcbor setup as the MCUmgr library takes care of the task for you.
```

> Most of the task which consists of function replacement is actually covered by the :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_general`, with exception to usage of `cborattr` which is covered by paragraph :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_mcumgr_cborattr`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Most of the task consists of function replacement is covered by the :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_general`, with exception to an usage of `cborattr` which is covered by the paragraph :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_mcumgr_cborattr`.
```

> In contrast to :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_general`, except for tuning some Kconfig configuration constants, there is no need for zcbor setup as the MCUmgr library takes case of the task.
> Most of the task which consists of function replacement is actually covered by the :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_general`, with exception to usage of `cborattr` which is covered by paragraph :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_mcumgr_cborattr`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In contrast to :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_general`, there is no need for zcbor setup for the MCUmgr commands and groups, because the MCUmgr library takes case of the task.
The only exception is tuning some Kconfig configuration constants.

Most of the function replacement task is covered by the :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_general`, with an exception for the `cborattr` usage, which is covered by a paragraph under :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_mcumgr_cborattr`.
```

The other important issue is decoding/encoding context access, which is described in :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_mcumgr_ctxt`.

.. note::

>    The encoding context given to a command processing handler function has the top level map already created.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   The encoding context provided by the command processing handler function, as a parameter parameter, has the top level CBOR map already created.
```

>    It will have the map closed on successful return from the handler, so handlers need not create the top level map.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   The map will be closed on successful return from the handler, so handlers need not create the top level map neither need to close it.
```

>    In contrary to the above, the decoding context is not yet opened and handlers are responsible for opening the top level map before decoding of a command.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   The decoding context, in contrary to the encoding, is set before the top map and handlers are responsible for opening of the top level map as a part of command decoding/processing code.
```

>    In contrary to the above, the decoding context is not yet opened and handlers are responsible for opening the top level map before decoding of a command.

Reviewer 6: What is meant here by "above", @de-nordic ?

Reviewer 5: @greg-fer  In contrary to the encoding, decoding does not open map prior to calling handler functions

.. _migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_mcumgr_ctxt:

Decoding and encoding context
-----------------------------

> To command the processing of functions in TinyCBOR and zcbor implementation, the MCUmgr provides the following:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Command processing functions, whenever TinyCBOR or zcbor is used, will be given a pointer to an object of type `struct mgmt_ctxt`. TinyCBOR uses `encoder` element of this object for encoding functions and `it`, TinyCBOR `CborValue` type iterator, for decoding functions.
```

> To command the processing of functions in TinyCBOR and zcbor implementation, the MCUmgr provides the following:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
To allow you to have control over the processing of functions in TinyCBOR and zcbor implementation, MCUmgr provides the following resources:
```
@de-nordic , please check the correctness of this edit.

Reviewer 5: Working was clumsy: "command processing function" , should be a function (handler), so probably more correct would be: "To a handler function for a SMP command, in TinyCbor and zcbor implementation, ..."

>  * A pointer to an object of type `struct mgmt_ctxt` from which the `encoder` element is used by CBOR encoding functions to write data.
>  * `it` - a  TinyCBOR `CborValue iterator to decoding functions.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

>  * `it` - a  TinyCBOR `CborValue iterator to decoding functions.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
 * A  TinyCBOR ``CborValue`` iterator for decoding functions, called ``it``.
```

> zcbor uses `zcbor_state_t` type objects for decoding and encoding states and these state objects have replaced the TinyCBOR `it` iterator and `encoder`, respectively, within `struct mgmt_ctxt`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
zcbor uses :c:type:`zcbor_state_t` type objects for decoding and encoding states.
These state objects have replaced TinyCBOR's ``it`` iterator and ``encoder``, respectively, within :c:struct:`struct mgmt_ctxt`.
```

> zcbor uses `zcbor_state_t` type objects for decoding and encoding states and these state objects have replaced the TinyCBOR `it` iterator and `encoder`, respectively, within `struct mgmt_ctxt`.
> The `zcbor_state_t` is not directly placed in `struct mgmt_ctxt` but is embedded within the `struct cbor_nb_reader` type object for decoding context, and in the `struct cbor_nb_writer` type object for encoding context.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
zcbor uses `zcbor_state_t` type objects for decoding and encoding states and these state objects have replaced the TinyCBOR `it` iterator and `encoder`, respectively, within `struct mgmt_ctxt` indirectly, as they are ebedded within the `struct cbor_nb_reader` type object for decoding context, and in the `struct cbor_nb_writer` type object for encoding context.
```

> The `zcbor_state_t` is not directly placed in `struct mgmt_ctxt` but is embedded within the `struct cbor_nb_reader` type object for decoding context, and in the `struct cbor_nb_writer` type object for encoding context.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The :c:type:`zcbor_state_t` is not directly placed in :c:struct:`struct mgmt_ctxt`, but is embedded within the ``struct cbor_nb_reader`` type object for the decoding context, and in the ``struct cbor_nb_writer`` type object for the encoding context.
```

Author: this has changed in a new version

> The `struct cbor_nb_reader` and `struct cbor_nb_writer` objects tie `zcbor_state_t` with `net_buf` type buffers that hold data for decoding or will hold encoded data.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The ``struct cbor_nb_reader`` and ``struct cbor_nb_writer`` objects tie :c:type:`zcbor_state_t` with ``net_buf`` type buffers that hold data for decoding or will hold encoded data.
```

> The replacement of decoder and encoder objects, as accessed through `struct mgmt_ctxt`, is shown by following table:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The substitution, in code, of references to decoder and encoder objects, as accessed through `struct mgmt_ctxt`, is shown by following table:
```

.. table::
    :align: center

    +===================+===================+
    | TinyCBOR          | zcbor             |
    +-------------------+-------------------+
    | `encoder`         | `cnbe.ts`         |
    |                   | `cnbe->ts`        |
    +-------------------+-------------------+
    | `it`              | `cnde.ts`         |
    |                   | `cnde->ts`        |
    +---------------------------------------+

.. _migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_mcumgr_cborattr:

> Replacing `cbor_read_object` with `zcbor_map_decode_bulk`

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Replacing ``cbor_read_object`` with ``zcbor_map_decode_bulk``
```

> ---------------------------------------------------------

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
-------------------------------------------------------------
```

.. note::

>    In some scenarios, decoding of keys is not required or it is required for only a single key.
>    In such case, the procedure described in this section can be greatly simplified as a single key can be obtained by using `zcbor_tst_decode` looped until the key is found.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    In scenarios where decoding of keys is not required or it is required for only a single key, the procedure described in this section can be greatly simplified as a single key can be obtained by using `zcbor_tst_decode` looped until the key is found.
```

> `cborattr` is a private MCUmgr utility that is used within the command processing code to process CBOR list contents in bulk.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
``cborattr`` is a private MCUmgr utility that is used within the command processing code to process CBOR list contents in bulk.
```

> `cborattr` is a private MCUmgr utility that is used within the command processing code to process CBOR list contents in bulk.
> It has been replaced with `zcbor_bulk`, also private to MCUmgr.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
`cborattr` was a private MCUMgr utility that was used within the command processing code to process CBOR list contents in bulk and is now replaced with `zcbor_bulk`.
```

> Both APIs are centered around the main function `cbor_read_object` in case of TinyCBOR, and `zcbor_map_decode_bulk`, in case of zcbor.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Above utility APIs are represented by a single function: `cbor_read_object` in case of TinyCBOR, and `zcbor_map_decode_bulk`, in case of zcbor.
```

> Both APIs are centered around the main function `cbor_read_object` in case of TinyCBOR, and `zcbor_map_decode_bulk`, in case of zcbor.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Both APIs are centered around the main function :c:func:`cbor_read_object` for TinyCBOR, and :c:func:`zcbor_map_decode_bulk` for zcbor.
```

> The advantage of the `zcbor_map_decode_bulk` over `cbor_read_object` is the simplification of structures that define functions decoding the CBOR.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The advantage of the `zcbor_map_decode_bulk`, over `cbor_read_object`, is simplification of structures that define mapping of  decoding functions to keys in CBOR map.
```

> The advantage of the `zcbor_map_decode_bulk` over `cbor_read_object` is the simplification of structures that define functions decoding the CBOR.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The advantage of the :c:func:`zcbor_map_decode_bulk` over :c:func:`cbor_read_object` is the simplification of structures that define functions for decoding the CBOR.
```

The following example demonstrates the transition from `cbor_read_object` to `zcbor_map_decode_bulk`:

.. code-block:: c

   int image;
   uint8_t img_data[SOME_DATA_LEN];
   size_t data_len;
   const struct cbor_attr_t off_attr[] = {
       [0] = {
           .attribute = "image",
           .type = CborAttrUnsignedIntegerType,
           .addr.uinteger = &req.image,
           .nodefault = true
       },
       [1] = {
           .attribute = "data",
           .type = CborAttrByteStringType,
           .addr.bytestring.data = img_data,
           .addr.bytestring.len = &data_len,
           .len = sizeof(img_data)
       },
       ...
   }
   rc = cbor_read_object(&ctxt->it, off_attr);
   ...

The `off_attr` provides specification of data encoded in CBOR format that is decoded by the call to `cbor_read_object`.
The specification is a list of structures that specify an expected list key (`.attribute` element), a type of key (`.type`), a pointer to the buffer for it
(usually subelement of the `.addr` element), and a few other attributes.

> The `cbor_read_object` takes the specification and, using the TinyCBOR decoding context, attempts to get all the described fields into the specified designated variables.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The ``cbor_read_object`` takes the specification and attempts to get all the described fields into the specified designated variables, using the TinyCBOR decoding context.
```

After a successful call to `cbor_read_object`, the variables are set and ready for further processing, and the buffer is shifted beyond the list.
This also includes copying binary and string buffers to the specified locations.

> The context, accessed by `ctxt->it` in the above example, is provided by the MCUmgr library, so it is already initialized and has the buffer attached.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The context is accessed by `ctxt->it` in the given example.
It is provided by the MCUmgr library, so it is already initialized and has the buffer attached.
```

The zcbor conversion of the above code looks like this:

.. code-block:: c

   int image;
   struct zcbor_string zst;
   struct zcbor_map_decode_key_val image_upload_decode[] = {
           ZCBOR_MAP_DECODE_KEY_VAL(image, zcbor_int32_decode, &image),
           ZCBOR_MAP_DECODE_KEY_VAL(data, zcbor_bstr_decode, &zst),
   };
   ok = zcbor_map_decode_bulk(zsd, image_upload_decode,
                              ARRAY_SIZE(image_upload_decode), &decoded) == 0;
   ...

> The list specification is significantly simplified as it consists of:
> 
>  * Array of `ZCBOR_MAP_DECODE_KEY_VAL` defined mappings, each given a name of key (without quotation marks).
>  * zcbor decoding function directly from API (or user-provided type equivalent).
>  * Pointer to variable where extracted value will be stored.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The list specification is significantly simplified as it consists of array of `ZCBOR_MAP_DECODE_KEY_VAL` defined mappings, each given: 
 * a name of key (without quotation marks);
 * zcbor decoding function directly from API (or user-provided type equivalent);
 * Pointer to a variable where extracted value will be stored.
```

>  * Pointer to variable where extracted value will be stored.

Reviewer 6: Periods not needed.

The difference here is that the decoding of binary and string data does not involve copying of the data to a specified buffer.
Instead, as described in :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_general`, the decoding function is paired with a `struct zcbor_string` type variable where decoding will store position and length of the data, within the provided CBOR buffer.

> It is then up to the user to copy the values to a specified location.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
It is then up to an user to copy the values to a specified location.
```

> This mechanism improves the RAM and CPU usage because the need for intermediate buffer is often reduced.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This mechanism improves the RAM and CPU usage, because the need for an intermediate buffer is often reduced.
```

> To return the number of decoded fields, `zcbor_map_decode_bulk` takes the following elements:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To process CBOR buffer and decode it according to defined mapping, the `zcbor_map_decode_bulk` takes the following parameters:
```

 * The zcbor decoding context, `zsd` in the above example.
 * The mapping specification and size of the mapping.

>  * The variable.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
 * A pointer to variable for number of successfully decoded map elements.
```

>  * The variable.

Reviewer 6: No period and indent needed.

> Currently, there is no method provided to find out what fields did not get found in string.
> It is up to the user to verify whether keys that are optional have appeared in the decoded string.
> This can be done, for example, by checking if a destination variable value has changed from initial.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
.. note::
Currently, there is no method provided to find out what fields did not get found in string.
It is up to the user to verify whether keys that are optional have appeared in the decoded string.
This can be done, for example, by checking if a destination variable value has changed from initial.
```

Encoding state initialization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Encoding with TinyCBOR is similar to decoding and requires two API calls: one to set up a buffer writer (``cbor_buf_writer_init()``) and one to attach the writer to the encoding state (``cbor_encoder_init()``).
zcbor encoding is initialized with a single call to ``zcbor_new_encode_state()`` that directly ties the provided buffer to an encoding state.
See the following example of simple zcbor state initialization for encoding:

.. code-block:: c

   zcbor_state_t zs[2];
   uint8_t buffer[SOME_SIZE];
   zcbor_new_encode_state(zs, ARRAY_SIZE(zs), buffer, ARRAY_SIZE(buffer), 0);
   /* Encode data to the buffer with zs state */
   ...

In this example:

* The zcbor state ``zs`` consists of two states, which is enough when zcbor is in non-canonical configuration (see :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_ZCBOR_CANONICAL`).
  In non-canonical configuration, the number of states would need to be increased by a maximum level of expected lists and/or arrays enveloping each other.

> * The ``buffer`` where encoded data will be placed, with size that limits it.

Author: I think saying it contains the data suggests it already has it, while it's a buffer where data will be placed (after encoding). So sticking to what is here, just adding 'parameter'

* The ``0`` is the final parameter that represents the number of items encoded into the buffer.

> * At this point, the zcbor state is initialized and zcbor decoding API calls that follow it must be given a pointer to the first zcbor state.

Author: moving outside of list

.. note::

    Currently, there is no API provided for zcbor to get information on how much of an output buffer has been used by encoded data.
    The only way to find this out is to substitute the buffer pointer, given at a zcbor state initialization, from the state object element ``payload_mut``, for example ``zs->payload_mut - buffer``.

.. _migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_general_api:

TinyCBOR to zcbor decoding/encoding API replacement
---------------------------------------------------

There are three major differences between TinyCBOR and zcbor APIs:

* TinyCBOR calls return error codes while zcbor returns a boolean value (``true`` is success).
* zcbor does not provide type or value peek functions.
* All of zcbor functions advance buffer on success.

zbcor stores error codes with ``zs`` and, when configured, can automatically fail consecutive calls when decoding or encoding fails.
Otherwise, the calls are quite similar: functions from both APIs take context or state as one parameter and value or pointer for value and optional buffer size, when required, as the other parameters.

The following list maps TinyCBOR functions to their zcbor equivalents:

> .. table::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

.. _migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_mcumgr_ctxt:

Decoding and encoding context
-----------------------------

Whenever TinyCBOR or zcbor is used, command processing functions are given a pointer to an object of type ``struct mgmt_ctxt``.
TinyCBOR uses the ``encoder`` element of this object for encoding functions and ``it``, a TinyCBOR ``CborValue`` type iterator, for decoding functions.

zcbor uses ``zcbor_state_t`` type objects for decoding and encoding states.
These state objects have indirectly replaced TinyCBOR's ``it`` iterator and ``encoder``, respectively, within ``struct mgmt_ctxt``.
They are embedded within the ``struct cbor_nb_reader`` type object for decoding context, and in the ``struct cbor_nb_writer`` type object for encoding context.

The ``struct cbor_nb_reader`` and ``struct cbor_nb_writer`` objects tie ``zcbor_state_t`` with ``net_buf`` type buffers that hold data for decoding or will hold encoded data.

The substitution, in code, of references to decoder and encoder objects, as accessed through ``struct mgmt_ctxt``, is shown by the following table:

> .. table::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

>     +===================+===================+
>     | TinyCBOR          | zcbor             |
>     +-------------------+-------------------+

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    +-------------------+-------------------+
    | TinyCBOR          | zcbor             |
    +===================+===================+

```

    | ``encoder``       | ``cnbe.ts``       |
    |                   +-------------------+
    |                   | ``cnbe->ts``      |
    +-------------------+-------------------+
    | ``it``            | ``cnde.ts``       |
    |                   +-------------------+
    |                   | ``cnde->ts``      |

>     +---------------------------------------+

Reviewer 3: Align the table to the left

The substitution, in code, of references to decoder and encoder objects, as accessed through ``struct mgmt_ctxt``, is shown by the following table:

+-------------------+-------------------+
| TinyCBOR          | zcbor             |
+===================+===================+
| ``encoder``       | ``cnbe.ts``       |
|                   +-------------------+
|                   | ``cnbe->ts``      |
+-------------------+-------------------+
| ``it``            | ``cnde.ts``       |
|                   +-------------------+
|                   | ``cnde->ts``      |
+-------------------+-------------------+

.. _migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_mcumgr_cborattr:

Replacing ``cbor_read_object()`` with ``zcbor_map_decode_bulk()``
-----------------------------------------------------------------

.. note::

   In scenarios where decoding of keys is not required or it is required for only a single key, the procedure described in this section can be greatly simplified as a single key can be obtained by using ``zcbor_tst_decode()`` that is looped until the key is found.

> ``cborattr`` was a private MCUMgr utility that was used within the command processing code to process CBOR list contents in bulk and is now replaced with ``zcbor_bulk()``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
``cborattr`` was a private MCUmgr utility that was used within the command processing code to process CBOR list contents in bulk and is now replaced with ``zcbor_bulk()``.
```

           .addr.bytestring.data = img_data,
           .addr.bytestring.len = &data_len,
           .len = sizeof(img_data)
       },
       ...
   }
   rc = cbor_read_object(&ctxt->it, off_attr);
   ...

The ``off_attr`` provides specification of data encoded in CBOR format that is decoded by the call to ``cbor_read_object()``.
The specification is a list of structures that specify the following elements:

* An expected list key (``.attribute`` element)
* A type of key (``.type``)
* A pointer to the buffer for the key (usually subelement of the ``.addr`` element)
* A few other attributes

The ``cbor_read_object()`` function takes the specification and attempts to get all the described fields into the specified designated variables, using the TinyCBOR decoding context.
After a successful call to ``cbor_read_object()``, the variables are set and ready for further processing, and the buffer is shifted beyond the list.
This also includes copying binary and string buffers to the specified locations.

The context is accessed by ``ctxt->it`` in the given example.
It is provided by the MCUmgr library, so it is already initialized and has the buffer attached.

> Following is the zcbor conversion of the given code example:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The following code sample is the zcbor conversion of the given code example:
```

   };
   ok = zcbor_map_decode_bulk(zsd, image_upload_decode,
                              ARRAY_SIZE(image_upload_decode), &decoded) == 0;
   ...

The list specification is significantly simplified as it consists of an array of ``ZCBOR_MAP_DECODE_KEY_VAL`` defined mappings, each of which is provided with the following parameters:

* Name of a key (without quotation marks)
* zcbor decoding function directly from API (or user-provided type equivalent)
* Pointer to a variable where the extracted value will be stored

The difference here is that the decoding of binary and string data does not involve copying of the data to a specified buffer.
Instead, as described in :ref:`migration_tinycbor_to_zcbor_general`, the decoding function is paired with a ``struct zcbor_string`` type variable where decoding will store position and length of the data, within the provided CBOR buffer.
It is then up to the user to copy the values to a specified location.
This mechanism improves the RAM and CPU usage because the need for an intermediate buffer is often reduced.

To process a CBOR buffer and decode it according to the defined mapping, ``zcbor_map_decode_bulk()`` takes the following parameters:

> * The zcbor decoding context, ``zsd`` in the above example

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* zcbor decoding context (``zsd`` in the above example)
```

> * The mapping specification and size of the mapping

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Mapping specification and size of the mapping
```

> * A pointer to a variable for number of successfully decoded map elements

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Pointer to a variable for number of successfully decoded map elements
```

For example, for PWM channels defined as follows:

.. code-block:: devicetree

    pwm0_default: pwm0_default {
        group1 {
            psels = <NRF_PSEL(PWM_OUT0, 0, 11)>;
            nordic,invert;
        };
        group2 {
            psels = <NRF_PSEL(PWM_OUT3, 1, 5)>;
        };
    };

    pwm0_sleep: pwm0_sleep {
        group1 {
            psels = <NRF_PSEL(PWM_OUT0, 0, 11)>,
                    <NRF_PSEL(PWM_OUT3, 1, 5)>;
            low-power-enable;
        };
    };

    &pwm0 {
        status = "okay";
        pinctrl-0 = <&pwm0_default>;
        pinctrl-1 = <&pwm0_sleep>;
        pinctrl-names = "default", "sleep";
    };

You must update the PWM LED definitions that use those channels:

.. code-block:: devicetree

    /* old definitions that will no longer work */
    pwm_led0: pwm_led_0 {
        pwms = <&pwm0 11>;
    };
    pwm_led1: pwm_led_1 {
        pwms = <&pwm0 37>;
    };

.. note::
   The period lengths, set here arbitrarily to commonly used value of 20 ms, are provided as default ones.

>    They can be overridden in the actual PWM API calls if needed.

Reviewer 7: I think that it would be better to place this note after the code snippet that it refers to, i.e. after the one with updated definitions. In the current form it is a bit confusing, at least to me.

Author: moved

zcbor uses ``zcbor_state_t`` type objects for decoding and encoding states.
These state objects have indirectly replaced TinyCBOR's ``it`` iterator and ``encoder``, respectively, within ``struct mgmt_ctxt``.
They are embedded within the ``struct cbor_nb_reader`` type object for decoding context, and in the ``struct cbor_nb_writer`` type object for encoding context.

The ``struct cbor_nb_reader`` and ``struct cbor_nb_writer`` objects tie ``zcbor_state_t`` with ``net_buf`` type buffers that hold data for decoding or will hold encoded data.

The substitution, in code, of references to decoder and encoder objects, as accessed through ``struct mgmt_ctxt``, is shown by the following table:

+-------------------+-------------------+
| TinyCBOR          | zcbor             |
+===================+===================+
| ``encoder``       | ``cnbe.ts``       |
|                   +-------------------+
|                   | ``cnbe->ts``      |
+-------------------+-------------------+
| ``it``            | ``cnde.ts``       |
|                   +-------------------+

> |                   | ``cnde->ts``      |
> +---------------------------------------+

Reviewer 3: There is some problem with the table..May be this fixes it.
```suggestion
|                   | ``cnde->ts``      |
+-------------------+-------------------+
```

For example, for PWM channels defined as follows:

.. code-block:: devicetree

    pwm0_default: pwm0_default {
        group1 {
            psels = <NRF_PSEL(PWM_OUT0, 0, 11)>;
            nordic,invert;
        };
        group2 {
            psels = <NRF_PSEL(PWM_OUT3, 1, 5)>;
        };
    };

    pwm0_sleep: pwm0_sleep {
        group1 {
            psels = <NRF_PSEL(PWM_OUT0, 0, 11)>,
                    <NRF_PSEL(PWM_OUT3, 1, 5)>;
            low-power-enable;
        };
    };

    &pwm0 {
        status = "okay";
        pinctrl-0 = <&pwm0_default>;
        pinctrl-1 = <&pwm0_sleep>;
        pinctrl-names = "default", "sleep";
    };

You must update the PWM LED definitions that use those channels:

.. code-block:: devicetree

    /* old definitions that will no longer work */
    pwm_led0: pwm_led_0 {
        pwms = <&pwm0 11>;
    };
    pwm_led1: pwm_led_1 {
        pwms = <&pwm0 37>;
    };

> They must be updated in the following way:

Reviewer 3: Could we move this just after the note below and before the code block?

.. _ncs_2.0.0_migration:

Migration notes for |NCS| v2.0.0
################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

In version 2.0.0, the |NCS| introduced a number of breaking changes into its codebase.
If your application was built using |NCS| v1.x.x, make sure to complete the actions listed in the following sections to migrate your application to |NCS| v2.x.x.

> Toolchain change

Author: @carlescufi  please provide more information

Reviewer: Do we currently have any toolchain-related information in NCS @b-gent?

Author: Only the 'Install a Toolchain' section that we are now including from Zephyr (we are pointing to it already).
Actually, I will change the link here to point to our documentation instead of Zephyr in this matter (same content).

****************

|NCS| no longer uses the GNU Arm Embedded Toolchain.
The current default toolchain is the Zephyr toolchain.

*Required action*: Install the new toolchain by following the steps in "Install a Toolchain" in Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:getting_started`.

> |VSC| extension IDE is now the default

Author: @trond-snekvik  please verify and provide more information

Author: @trond-snekvik  ping

**************************************

|VSC| extension IDE has replaced SEGGER Embedded Studio as the default supported IDE for working with the |NCS|.

*Required action*: If you are building the application or sample using SEGGER Embedded Studio or on the command line and want to migrate to |VSC| extension IDE, follow the instructions in the `migrating from other IDEs to VS Code <Migrating IDE_>`_ documentation.

> Pin control transition

Reviewer: @gmarull can you please weigh in here?

> Pin control transition

Author: Added some content, mostly referencing the new user guide. @gmarull  please check

> Pin control transition

Reviewer 8: it's ok, no need to duplicate information

**********************

*Required action*:

> TF-M replaces SPM as the default secure firmware solution

Author: @frkv please provide more information

Reviewer 9: https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf/blob/main/doc/nrf/ug_tfm.rst#migrating-from-secure-partition-manager-to-trusted-firmware-m

Author: Added some content, @frkv  please verify

*********************************************************

Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M) is now used in |NCS| as a default solution for running an application from the non-secure area of the memory.

*Required action*:

> Switch from TinyCBOR to zcbor

Reviewer 5: Working on it.

> Switch from TinyCBOR to zcbor

Author: added the provided content , @de-nordic  please verify

*****************************

*Required action*:

> New logging mechanism

Author: @nordic-krch , please provide input
It seems that a migration action is required here if a customer is using an out-of-tree backend

*********************

*Required action*:

> Zephyr namespace change

Author: @gmarull  please provide information

> Zephyr namespace change

Reviewer: @gmarull ping

> Zephyr namespace change

Reviewer 8: I think I already said I don't see this as a "namespace" change, since APIs are not namespaced, it's just a header prefix. I guess it's ok though.
